# A New Mindfulness
Aesthetics and Computation final project repository for group 2
Download the contents within "A New Mindfulness" folder (SuperCollider patch -ANewMindfulness.scd- as well as a Processing sketch folder -Room_Of_Zen)

This instrument revolves around mentally and figuratively centering oneself. When a user’s face is detected, a rectangle appears and overlays it. The position of the rectangle on screen (AKA the position and movement of the user’s face) is sonified. If their face is centered on the screen, then the sound will be a soft, low tone. As their face gets closer to the edges of the screen, then the sound becomes higher, as if in warning to urge the user to return to center. 

This instrument can be a pertinent tool for the times we are in. Amidst a global pandemic, education and work must primarily be achieved remotely. More so than ever, computers and video-conferencing platforms are crucial as sources of human connection. With the current shift to online communication, anyone, anywhere, at any time is now accessible. The one requirement is being within frame of a webcam. 

Although it sounds simple, centering yourself on screen can be a cumbersome task. Sometimes you inadvertently dip out of screen where people can’t see you, which is obstructive to communication. The first screen of this project acts as an allegory for the stressors of a pandemic climate. It produces cacophonous sound based off of facial recognition (via x and y coordinates). 

Though thrown into entropy, one can make the decision to make time and find peace. The second screen of this project may serve as a tool to check whether you’re centered on screen – you simply know by sound. Furthermore, physically centering yourself on screen may translate to assist in feeling mentally centered. For the second screen, we thought about how we could turn the digital space into a peaceful space. When the user needs a break from the stresses of their screen, they may enter our project’s mediation mode. A web of shapes fills the screen, and the user is supposed to inhale and exhale in coordination with its movement. The user’s face position will still be sonified in a similar fashion, guiding the user towards the center of the screen, for one should remain centered when meditating. Utilizing frequencies that are said to have metaphysical properties, the facial recognition sonification transcends users into a meditative state. When the user is in the center of the screen, the frequency is within range of 528 Hz, otherwise known as the “miracle note.” To the left and right of the screen, frequencies associated heart chakra therapy may be heard. 


